The Joe Rogan experience.
In your documentary, you did a race, you tried to do a,
an Iris, which is an amazing documentary. If you haven't seen it,
I recommend it highly, you did a race clean,
and then you were gonna do a race all juiced up and you went to him and he was
the head of the Russian anti-doping Federation. Is that what, what it is? Yeah.
So.
So Gregory Roche of, um, BA basically the premise was, um,
is, is I,
I felt that the entire doping system in sport was a
fraud. And, and the reason why I, I, I had this belief was,
is I had, I had followed Lance Armstrong, my whole life,
a guy confesses in 2013. But if you had actually followed that story,
it's kind of like what you're saying about, you know,
Russia's band from the Olympics, but are not really banned.
And they just can't wear their outfit. Well, in the case of, of, of Lance, well,
yeah, he confessed to doping,
but the guy to this day never was actually caught.
And here's, this guy had passed, like, I don't know, five, 600 tests.
So as he confesses and I'd been a cycling fan, a lifelong cyclist,
I'm going, wait, wait, wait, um,
you caught the guy based on a, a criminal investigation,
but you didn't catch him based on the science. And if you can't test the most,
and if you can't catch the most tested athlete on planet earth, well,
what does this mean for every other athlete on planet earth?
And so the idea was, is I was gonna do like a supersize me in the world of, uh,
in the world of, of, um, sport. I was gonna race clean.
And then the next year I was gonna dope the hell outta myself,
take testosterone, HG H EPO. I mean,
uh, H C G uh, I was up to do anything. I mean, I was,
I was literally like E injecting myself with like, you know, it was like, uh,
10 syringes a day. It was just so stupid. And, uh, and then literally, like,
I'm going to getting blood test to like build, uh,
biological passport to like test my hematocrit.
So like every other week I'm literally going get my blood drawn. I'm to like,
you know,
build like my whole steroid profile to basically try to evade
testing. So I get connected to this guy,
Gregory Rechov and at the time he's running Rua, which the,
uh, I'm sorry, the water lab, the world anti-doping lab, uh,
for Moscow, which is like the third largest, uh, you know,
anti-doping lab in the world at the time, uh, this is now, uh,
20 14, 20, 20, 15 and Gregory basis. Like, yes, I'll,
I'll help you dope and I'll help of a testing. And, uh,
I'll basically show you how you can game the system. And I'm like,
this is nuts.
Like the guy who just did all the testing for the Sochi
Olympics and is running the entire anti-doping lab in Russia is basically
gonna like test my samples and show me how to cheat, like what's going on here.
So the two of us start working, he comes to the United States,
he comes to Los Angeles. We have a great time. I then go do this next race,
completely doped outta my mind. And I'm like taking blood samples,
I'm taking urine. And right after this race, I hop on a plane.
I go to Moscow and I'm like hanging out with Gregory for like a month.
And he takes all my samples into the lab and there was this investigation
already going on. And I was like, okay, something's off here.
And so I spent this month in Russian, I come back,
what was the investigation that was already going on? So in, uh, in the,
in 2015, um,
wa releases in the, I can't remember exactly when it was, it was like early,
uh, like March of 2015, something like that.
The world anti-doping age agency had already been investigating the Moscow
laboratory. And they come out with this, uh,
with this report that they believe that Gregory Roche is like
the mastermind of this state sponsored doping operation.
And they've got a bunch of evidence, but they had no idea. It was like,
I mean, they had like, literally like the tip of a pinky and,
and the size of the scandal was basically, you know,
like an entire, an entire body. I mean,
and they literally just had the tip of the pinky,
but the tip of the pinky was so bad that they shut 10 on the
Moscow lab. Gregory is now the fall guy he's forced to resign.
And you know, and Putin's basically on television going like, look, look,
whatever you want to believe. None of this is true. We have never doped.
We don't cheat. These are all lies. Oh. And by the way,
says,
anybody who is responsible for this crime will be
punished.
So basically Putin is literally on television going Gregory Chekhov is,
is going under the bus and Gregory is in Moscow. And we had, you know,
been working together. He calls me up and he's like, but I am, but I,
I need to escape. And I'm like, um, uh, okay, when, when he's like,
now I need to leave now. And I'm like, uh, like, like now,
like as in now, he's like, yes, yes, I need the flight now.
And I'm literally sitting there on Skype and I start doing a search for
Moscow, Los Angeles. And I'm like, um, well, uh, there's,
there's a flight in like, uh, uh, 12 hours.
And he's like, okay. I'm like, you want me to book that flight? He's like, yes,
book the flight. If I put it on my credit card, well, no,
you'll have to put it on your credit card. So I literally booked this flight,
put it on my credit card. And a day later,
here's Gregory in Los Angeles and about a
month into him being in LA. And you know, going down in Russia. I'm like, look,
man, you gotta tell me what happened.
And he opens up and
you know, and that's was IOUs. I mean, it was.
It's amazing. It was crazy the way it, it was unfolded in the documentary,
it's it, it couldn't have been written better. Like if it was a drama,
it was a scripted drama. It could not have been written better.
And the fact that it was all just circumstance, just all happened,
all happened at the right time. It it's an amazing documentary.
And for a person like Jordan burrows who was here yesterday, it,
it was too much. He literally had to shut it off. I told,
I convinced him to watch the rest of it. I, you have to, I go, it's so good.
It's so crazy. Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free.
Only on Spotify. Watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience on
Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe, a good experience.